# portfolio
A collection of some of my projects. See the readme file to gain insight into each project and how to run the code (if needed).

baseball-analytics.ipynb: Just some baseball analysis I did for fun. In order to run the code, you will need the datasets located at the linked kaggle page. The pitch-location plot and home-run-zone plot don't seem to show in github (probably because they are interactive plots), but will display if run locally.

Songify_no_gui...: This is a portion of a Python program I made to recommend songs to users (primary concepts are Natural Language Processing and the use of APIs). Because the other functionalities required datasets that are too large for Github, I have only included the functionality that matches input lyrics to songs. For example, if you remember a lyric, but you don't know what song it is from, the program will attempt to find the song for you. Due to API licensing I cannot share my API information, so in order to run the program you will need to create a Spotify for Developers account, as well as a MusixMatch account. The program works significantly better with the paid version of Musixmatch, but it should work moderately well with the free version of MusixMatch. In order to run, just run each cell until the end. To run subsequent times, only the final cell needs to be run.

HW8_Geostatstics.py: An example of some homework I had in Python from a class called Machine Learning in Geology. The homework required me to compute variograms, as well as models using kriging and sequential gaussian simulations in order to compare the methods. 

MAD2502...: An example of a short project I had in a class called Intro to Computational Math. The coding questions (in Python) were basically testing if I could complete some analysis, plotting, and file writing using the given imports. Once again, running every cell in order is how to run this code.

environment_copy.qmd: Preliminary analysis (using R) of environmental data in Europe and Asia over the last couple thousand years. The objective of this code was to identify outliers in the data and compare to outbreak data (separate analysis of Black Death will be conducted) in order to draw connections between environmental trends and the spread of diseases. In order to run this code, download the dataset for June-August (the link to the dataset is provided) and replace the file path for phyda_path with the file path for your downloaded data.

Minesweeper: A C++ version of the game Minesweeper. The file to be run is main.cpp, although all the files in the folder are needed. If you need a guide on the rules of Minesweeper, Google is your friend. This isn't really a data science project but I just wanted to show that I know C++. I believe I got a 98% on this project because the text is not centered when the user enters their name and I believe I had a bug with the leaderboard. If the game doesn't work for you, you probably have to download SFML graphics (or your version of C++ is different).
